OBJECT RECOVERY
===============

This is a description of how the recover feature works and how you can
implement it in your objects.

INTRODUCTION
============

When the game reboots, or when a player wants to take a short break for
changing terminal, eat dinner or whatever he should not have to sell all
object and start over later. What is needed is a facility for storing his
objects for a brief period of time during certain circumstances. The
'recover' feature handles this.

Recover is ONLY possible IF armageddon is active OR if the player is
standing on one of the default or temporary starting locations that are
available when he quits the game.

If any of these two conditions are met AND the object is coded properly,
information about the object is stored in the player when he logs out. The
object is then destroyed, not dropped, so that automatic cloning of
valuable stuff won't happen.

If the player logs in within two hours of logging out, the stored objects
are recovered. If he logs in at a later time they are lost, he won't even
get their value back.

Recovery of armours and weapons is restricted. Every reboot they have a
chance not to recover even though the wizard who coded the object. Many
standard objects, like weapons, armours, torches and others have code for
recovery in them by default now. Check the header of the object you are
coding for details on whether that is done or not.

WHAT THE PLAYER SEES
====================

When the player appraises a recoverable object, the text 'This object
seems to be able to last a while.' is shown. If he types 'save' while
standing on spot where recover is valid the objects that can be recovered
will glow briefly. This happens when he quits as well. When the player
logs in, he will be told which objects are recovered.

If the object has recovery in it, but is disallowed to recover as armour
or weapon, the player gets the message that the object fails to glow rather
than that it glows.

IMPLEMENTATION
==============

